Title, black text on a white background:
The Blessing of Rescuing Critique,
Daniel Anderson, @iamdan.
The title text fades out.
A passage shows across the top
of the screen: Suspicious reading
inscribes
itself in the psyche as . . . a mind-set
equipped with distinct qualities: distance
rather than closeness; guardedness rather
than openness; aggression rather than
submission; superiority rather than
reverence; attentiveness rather than
distraction; exposure rather than
tact. . . . The danger . . . is less
its potential brutality than
the threat of banality.
Wild horses appear across the bottom
of the video.
The horse imagery fades out.
The passage on screen fades out.
One line at a time, the poem "A Blessing"
scrolls at the bottom of the screen
New text appears: What drives
[a hermeneutics of suspicion] is the
conviction that appearances are deceptive,
that texts do not gracefully relinquish
their meanings, that manifest content
shrouds darker, more unpalatable truths.
It is a mode of interpretation that adopts
a distrustful attitude toward texts
in order to draw out meanings or
implications that are not intended and
that remain inaccessible to their authors
as well as to ordinary readers.
A new passage appears: Such an
orientation has clear affinities with the
burgeoning interest in affect. One of the
distinguishing marks of works of art,
after all, is their ability to inspire
intense responses, inchoate emotions,
quasi-visceral passions, working and
worming their way into our minds and
bodies. Art is the quintessential
mood-altering substance.
"A Blessing" scrolls at the bottom
of the screen.
New text appears: A critical inquiry
involves some manner of courage
or audacity. It is also why such a
critical practice opens up a new
possibility for elaborating the subject
or what [Foucault] sometimes calls
creating a new subjectivity, one that
would by definition maintain an uncertain
relation to existing terms of legitimacy
and intelligibility, at least at first.
New text appears: The object of study is
no longer an object. A generous reading
is always, in part, a reading of ourselves
reading. The thought it produces is never
transferable, recognizable, paraphrasable,
applicable, expoundable, or
illustratable—meaning that it cannot
be detached either from the text itself
or from the moment of reading.
A folder window containing files appears.
A video appears with a title:
Wild Horses of Nevada.
Wild horses appear, grazing
and gathering in scrub brush.
A figure holding a red guitar appears.
The figure strums the guitar.
On the surface of the guitar is reflected
a scene outside a window and a laptop.
The laptop screen appears. It blends
imagery of a man in a cowboy hat,
a windmill, and the red guitar.
A camera program counts down,
reflected on the guitar with wild horses
and the man in the cowboy hat.
Opaque windmill blades rotate on screen.
Opaque horses move over the guitar.
The figure strums.
An audio visualizer appears.
The colors in the visualizer shift
and spike.
A video on YouTube appears showing
a figure holding a red guitar.
The video show blended imagery of a man in
a cowboy hat, a windmill, and the guitar.
In the video, the figure strums
the guitar.
The screen fades to white.
An image appears showing a man in a dark
blue shirt. His face fills the screen,
grimacing. Imposed on the image is text:
OH MY GOD.
The image cuts to a montage of drag
racing imagery.
The man in the blue shirt reappears,
hunched over. Text shows over the imagery:
HOW BAD IS HE?
A montage appears with drag racers,
ights, and a finger poised over a switch.
Imagery shows mechanics working,
and then two male figures conversing.
The imagery fades out leaving a white
swatch projected on a wall and a chair.
Opaque text is projected on the wall:
Rochester your secret's safe with me.
A figure in a white shirt steps into
the frame and sits on the chair.
He holds a red guitar. On his shirt,
imagery showing drag racers is projected.
The text of "A Blessing" scrolls
in the lower right.
The figure strums the guitar.
Drag racing imagery plays over the figure
and the guitar.
Men roll a dragster to a starting line.
"A Blessing" scrolls: Just off the highway
to Rochester, Minnesota,
Twilight bounds softly forth on the grass.
In the lower right appears a thumbnail
video with a figure hunched over a laptop.
"A Blessing" scrolls: And the eyes of
those two Indian ponies
Darken with kindness.
A dragster launches from
the starting line.
Cars race across the screen, projected
on the figure and the red guitar.
"A Blessing" scrolls: They have come
gladly out of the willows
To welcome my friend and me.
A man in racing jacket appears.
"A Blessing" scrolls: We step over the
barbed wire into the pasture
Two men at a race track appear,
conversing.
"A Blessing" scrolls: Where they have been
grazing all day alone.
The two drag racers walk side-by-side
and converse.
"A Blessing" scrolls: They ripple tensely,
they can hardly contain their happiness
That we have come.
The figure strums as imagery plays over
his shirt and the guitar.
"A Blessing" scrolls: They bow shyly as
wet swans. They love each other.
There is no lonliness like theirs.
Mechanics working on dragsters are
projected on the figure and the guitar.
"A Blessing" scrolls: At home once more,
They begin munching the young tufts of
spring in the darkness.
A tree of starting lights appears.
A finger appears, poised over a switch.
The finger flips the switch.
Dragsters race away
from the starting line.
"A Blessing" scrolls: I would like to hold
the slenderer on in my arms,
For she has walked over to me
A dragster spins out of control, sliding
and spinning down the track.
"A Blessing" scrolls: And nuzzled
my left hand.
Replay shows the dragster sliding down
the track and breaking apart.
A tow truck races toward the accident.
"A Blessing" scrolls: She is
black and white.
An ambulance races by.
The man in the blue shirt appears,
hunched over.
"A Blessing" scrolls: Her mane falls wild
on her forehead,
And the light breeze moves me to caress
her long ear
The figure plays guitar. On his shirt is
projected
the face of the man in the blue shirt,
grimacing.
"A Blessing" scrolls: That is delicate as
the skin over a girl's wrist.
The man in the blue shirt holds his head
in his hands. Text appears on the image:
HOW BAD IS HE?
"A Blessing" scrolls: Suddenly I realize
That if I stepped out of my body
I would break
Into blossom.
The figure strums as imagery of a
mangled dragster plays over his shirt.
The figure strums the guitar. On his shirt
is projected the face of the man in the
blue shirt. On the image, text appears:
OH MY GOD.
The image freezes.
The figure with the guitar moves, shifting
the frozen image as the screen zooms out.